# Employee_data_base
For this challenge we were tasked with using SQL and PgAdmin in order to read csv's and important its respective data into a database and further filter the data and join together multiple data sets. In order to do this we had to use functions that were learned throughout the module, such the JOIN function in order to merger different tables, the CREATE TABLE function to create the tables that would be joined, and the WHERE function to help filter the data into specific dates. The goal of this challenge was to use the data in order to successfully see the amount of employees who were still currently working and also about to go into retirement in the upcoming years. 
Results 
From the results that we collected, there are a few things that we can conclude from the data. 
The current workforce contains a high volume of employees who will be retiring soon
The vast majority of retirees are in upper management positions
There are more retries than mentorships ready
There will have to be increase in training in order to successfully prepare for this "silver tsunami”.
From the first table that we created retirement finals, we can see that over 56,000 employees will be retiring in the upcoming years from their position across the business world. Many of these retirees will most likely go into retirement around the same time causing a major gap in the workplace in upper management. This can be seen in our retirement titles csv and which we can see that a large portion of upper management and more experienced jobs are currently being filled by these retirees. Next looking at the mentorship csv we can see that there is only a small portion of employees ready to take on the next roles in the future, compared to the amount of retirees, these mentors are not enough to help fill in the gap in the upcoming years. Finally in order to help combat this "silver wave", companies will have to begin training less seasoned employees on how to successfully run these roles or underqualified individuals will have to hired for these roles. While, for some of the roles this is not as  serious of an effect, but other high jobs will require some experience in that position and others to help walk them up to that point in order to be more successful. 
Summary
For the challenge we successfully used SQL and PgAdmin to import csv files into a database were they could be more easily read. Upon importing them we were able to create tables from the data and join them together to get more connected and informative data. Additionally, we were able to filter some of the tables based on data ranges in order to better see the population of retiring employees. From the data we can conclude that the impact of "silver tsunami" will effect a large majority of higher roles. Many upper management jobs and more experienced job will need to be filled in the upcoming years. Currently as it stands there are not enough qualified employees to fill the roles when mass retirement begins.
